[THEME MUSIC]
>> I'm radio and television
host, Jimmy Church,
and I'm here to uncover
the truth about some
of life's biggest mysteries.
If this is revealed,
everything has to be rewritten.
My guest today is Timothy Hogan,
Grand Master of the Knights
Templar, and an expert on the
esoteric history of humankind.
>> It was probably broadcasting
this energy all around
the planet.
>> Technical assistant, Josh--
Josh, can you pull up the map?
>> Yeah.
>> --also joins us to
help set the scenes.
Join us as we deep dive to
get to the bottom of some
of the most intriguing
questions of our time.
Have you seen the
Ark of the Covenant?
[THEME MUSIC]
Welcome to "Into the Vortex."
I'm your host, Jimmy Church.
And today, we're
going to jump into one
of the most
controversial subjects
for this community, which
is the Knights Templar.
And our guest today is
Timothy Hogan, Grandmaster
of the Knights Templar.
And being able to go
directly to the source
for this information,
it's not only
important for the community,
but it's very important to me.
And I'm pretty
excited about this.
Josh, you ready
to get this going?
>> Oh, I'm excited.
I'm fascinated with
the Knights Templar,
and I'm excited to
continue my education.
You're the right
man for the job.
>> Great.
>> Welcome Timothy.
And we need to really
just jump straight
into this, and the
most important question
to start this off is what is
the true origins of the Knights
Templar?
>> Well, most historians will
say the Knights Templar were
founded in 1118.
Actually, the order was
started as early as 1096,
and it took a while before
they got involved in Jerusalem.
And they were doing stuff
prior to the Roman Catholic
patronage, which
existed for a while
until it was removed in 1307.
>> Well, we have the historical
side that we're all taught
and the dogma that has been
established since then that
they were there to escort
the Crusades and to defend
the Crusades and have a military
presence there in Jerusalem.
But then we have
the other story,
which is they were digging.
They were searching.
They were looking for
artifacts and texts
and some things may have been
spirited out of Jerusalem.
How can we address that from
a historical perspective?
Were they searching for things?
>> They were definitely
searching for things.
And not only that, but
there was a belief,
a definite belief, that there
was a primordial tradition that
had existed prior to a deluge,
which we would refer to it,
Atlantis.
And that when it
collapsed, there
were pockets that had spread
out to different parts
in the world.
So they were trying to seek
out these different pockets
to obtain what these
pockets were preserving
and then also to dig in areas
that they absolutely knew
there were things to be found.
>> Let me stop you
right there, if I may.
>> Yeah.
>> You used the A word.
You just said "Atlantis."
And most haven't connected
the Templars with Atlantis.
And when you say
something like that, what
are you actually trying to say?
>> I mean, they started
out looking at the Torah
and the Old Testament
and the stories of Noah.
I mean, here's
this story of there
was this cataclysm
that occurred,
where there was
this massive flood.
And they had connections with
groups in the Middle East,
particularly groups
like the Druze
and the Sabians and others, who
were preserving and translating
texts that alluded to these
earlier civilizations,
including Greek and Roman texts.
So they had exposure
to the works of Plato
and others, which talked
about this pre-civilization.
So they wanted to
find out, OK, where's
the technology from
this pre-civilization?
Where is the philosophy
from this pre-civilization?
What was their
religious beliefs?
What has been preserved from it?
So that they could bring
it back into Europe
and get Europe out
of the Dark Ages.
>> Did they understand
what they were discovering?
And how did they
translate that knowledge
into something that not
only that could be applied
to their mission and
what they were doing
but how do you understand
a high-technology culture
from Atlantis to their period?
>> There were allusions to
technology within the Bible
itself, and that's what
they were primarily looking
at, at the time.
There weren't a whole
lot of books around,
and so there were allusions,
particularly within the Torah,
talking about the Ark
of the Covenant, which
was this device that could
do all these crazy things.
And if people touched it, they
would be electrocuted to death,
basically.
And they were working with
people like Rashi of Troyes,
in France, who was a good friend
of Saint Bernard of Clairvaux,
who wrote the rule
for the Templars.
And they were passing on a
knowledge and a history of hey,
there are these
artifacts, and they
are buried at certain areas.
And this is where
you can find them.
So go down and get them.
>> What did they find?
>> So in their
archaeological digging,
they found a number of things.
They did find a series
of boxes, or arks,
which had also been incorporated
on the Egyptian temple walls.
They discovered substances of--
strange, mysterious substances
is how they described it,
which we would call manna.
>> Manna from heaven?
>> Like manna from heaven, yeah.
But it was a substance
that they learned that they
could manufacture alchemically.
So they discovered these
lost arts and sciences.
They also discovered tombs
of a number of holy people,
that they discovered
their bones.
And they collected them
and brought them back.
And some of this
was a real problem,
because it was contrary
to the narrative
that the church was
perpetuating at the time.
But it was completely in
line with their own beliefs.
They tended to be more of
a Gnostic persuasion, which
was they believed that anybody,
through their own efforts,
could attain a direct
knowledge of the divine.
They didn't need
a priest to do it.
>> Let me jump in right there.
Josh, pull up the
cartouche, because people
ask about evidence.
You know, OK, these are
extraordinary claims,
but how can you back this up?
And I want you to look
at-- this is from Egypt.
And I call this a
cartouche, but this
appears to be a cartouche
with an ark represented there.
Is this what I'm looking at?
>> Yeah, that's right.
It's an ark box, and it's
levitating off the ground,
it should be pointed out.
And that cartouche-thing
that you're talking about
is actually a field.
It's like an
electric field that's
around it that's attached to a--
it's like a rope that
the pharaoh on the left
is holding it to control it.
This is an example of
one of these boxes,
and you can find them
all over the place.
This particular one was at Edfu,
where there's the Edfu building
texts that also talk about--
>> Probably the most historic,
important text on planet Earth,
right there in Edfu.
>> For sure.
>> Here, the reason why I bring
up the cartouche symbology is
the Egyptians, when they
represented something inside
of this shape, the cartouche
shape, it suggests nobility.
It's related to the pharaoh.
It's extremely important.
And so to have something
like an ark represented here,
it's huge to them.
>> Yeah, it is my understanding,
it is my belief and certainly
the belief of others, that
what they were talking--
they discovered these boxes
were basically like capacitors.
They could build up large
amounts of electricity
that would discharge.
And if you didn't
handle them properly,
they could shock you to death.
>> Do you think this is the
Ark, the Ark of the Covenant?
>> Well, according to
our Templar tradition,
there were actually
multiple arks.
>> OK, Josh.
>> Yes.
>> This next image that Josh
has, I think, is extraordinary,
because this, I think,
represents exactly what
you're talking about.
Because here it looks
like we've got four.
>> Yeah, this is at Dendera.
Yeah, there's four
arks there, and you
can see they're issuing
forth the electricity out
of the tops of them.
There were multiple
arks, I think,
that were being
used around Egypt.
Certainly, one of them
ended up becoming the Ark
within the Hebrew tradition.
Some have even speculated
that maybe the reason why
the pharaoh was
even chasing Moses
was because he had stolen one
of these arks out of Egypt.
And that's what he was
really trying to get.
But we find them on the temple
walls all over the place.
And usually, associated
with this ark,
you also find these depictions
of these conical white cakes
or these mounds of what
would be manna, described
as manna in the Bible.
>> I'm going to
swing back to that.
Is it possible that these
arks, or one of them,
made it out of Egypt and
Jerusalem and back into Europe
by the Knights Templar.
>> Yeah, according
to our records,
we actually recovered six
arks that we brought back
into Europe, via
through Portugal, well,
through Lebanon.
There's a site called
the Tomb of Hiram,
which you can find in Lebanon.
And it's actually
not a tomb at all.
It was just a vault, where
these things were held.
It was there for
a while before it
would move to Portugal, and
then from there, up to Scotland.
And then from Scotland,
they were brought over here
to the New World.
>> To the United States.
So there's a possibility--
>> What was to become
the United States, yeah.
>> Josh if we found an Ark of
the Covenant here in the United
States, what would you say?
>> My mind would be blown,
and I wouldn't be able to stop
talking about it
for a long time.
The fact there's four arks
is the first time I've ever
heard that.
And the fact they could
be around the world
is super compelling
and fascinating to me.
>> This would truly
rewrite history
>> Yeah, for sure.
>> I want your reaction
to this, too, as well.
Here, you brought up manna.
So here is a manna jar.
And now, when we see
something like this,
again, I always go
back to the evidence
and the science that supports
some of these discussions.
And what is going on here?
>> What we have here, at the
bottom of this jar is this
white powder that's manna.
It's the traditional manna.
You can see it kind of--
when it forms, it forms like
this conical shape, this mound,
at the bottom of the jar.
And this substance, beyond
being something that's healing,
it's also super conductive.
So you can imagine,
if you consider
the stories of the Ark,
the Ark was actually
created to hold the manna.
And then Solomon's Temple
was created to hold the Ark.
So the entire purpose
for Solomon's Temple
was to hold this manna.
The manna went in the Ark.
The Ark went in the temple.
And this manna, being a super
conductive substance, when
it was put inside
the Ark, and the Ark
was basically like a capacitor.
>> An energy source.
>> An energy source-- it just
issued a tremendous amount
of electricity.
And this is the
reason why nobody
could touch it without dying.
>> And this is a
manufacturing process,
and this is how this is done.
>> Yes, and this is it, yeah.
>> OK, so again, it's back to
the evidence into deep history,
and when we mention the
manufacturing of this,
of the manna in the jar, there's
a cone shape at the bottom,
but I think it's represented--
Josh, if you could,
pull up this image here.
Is that what we're
seeing here, Tim?
>> Yes, that's exactly
what you're seeing.
So as you see, the figure
who represents Osiris
is holding this
cone-shaped bread,
and he's handing it to the
guy that has the heaven
plumes of Aman on his head.
And he's offering it to him.
And the reason why
it's that cone shape
is because that's how it
forms when you go to make it.
>> And there's a lot of
excitement in that image too,
as well.
>> He's very excited.
>> What is inside of the Ark?
You mentioned that possibly
the manna manufacturing
process is happening
there, but it's
like the biggest
mystery in history.
What is inside of the Ark?
>> Well, traditionally,
they said that the tablets,
what we would now know is the
tablets of the Commandments,
were put inside the ark, as
well as a pot of manna is how
it's described.
It should be pointed out
that Moses had both the Ten
Commandments and then he also
had these tablets of testimony.
And according to
alchemical traditions,
this Tablet of Testimony was
actually this Emerald Tablet.
But these things were
put inside of the ark.
From a power
standpoint, that manna
is really a
superconductive substance.
So when you put a super
conductive substance
inside a capacitor,
like the ark,
it just causes it to produce an
immense amount of electricity
that it just broadcasts out.
>> I've got a couple of other
images here that, to me,
represent a vessel.
I see a vessel here.
And we just looked at a manna
jar, and I see the connection.
Is that what's happening?
>> Yeah, so what we have here--
so this is at Amien's Cathedral.
So one of the things
that the Templars did
when they came back
to Europe is they
were responsible for building
the first cathedrals of France.
And inside these cathedrals,
they put all kinds of imagery.
Most people think of
just biblical scenes,
but they also depicted
alchemical processes
for manufacturing this manna.
And this is one example of that.
You see the figure holding
what's called an athanor oven.
It's an alchemical
oven, and they're
pulling a salamander
out of the bottom of it.
And what they're
really depicting
is in the language, the
alchemical language,
a salamander--
they didn't actually believe
that lizards lived in ovens,
but they knew that you could
break down the word salamander
into the words
"sal" and "mandra,"
which meant--
"sal" meant "salt,"
And "mandra" meant "stable."
So what they were saying is you
could extract the stable salts
out of the oven after
you've calcinated down
all the other materials.
And so this is what
they're trying to depict.
>> In this next image, where,
apparently we're seeing
the exact same thing, and if
somebody's walking past this
cathedral and they see this,
they would not make these
connections.
But the symbolism is
right there, correct?
>> Yeah, yeah, and
this is another one.
This is at Amboise.
But yeah, they're depicting
the exact same thing.
And these secret salts,
these stable salts
that they are extracting
out is the manna.
This is the manna that
they have to calcinate down
to the vegetable matter.
In fact, for that matter,
this is the whole reason
why Moses witnessed
God as a burning bush,
because you have to
calcinate down the material,
and then you can extract
the manna out of it.
And this is what's
being depicted.
>> So if I'm understanding
correctly, so let's back up.
We have this representation
now in Europe
that was brought to Europe,
the alchemical traditions,
from Jerusalem by the
Knights Templar, who
discovered this in Jerusalem.
And this is evidence
of these alchemical
and high-tech traditions
that go back to Atlantis.
>> Correct.
Yeah, and that they were
also being preserved in Egypt
after the collapse of Atlantis.
The story is Egypt was one of
the centers of preservation.
>> Well, OK, so you
brought up Edfu.
So in the Edfu text
and that history
certainly points back to the
origins coming from Atlantis.
The same catastrophe is
represented there in Edfu.
And that is a direct
Atlantean connection,
which again, goes
back to Jerusalem
to the Knights Templar,
back to Europe and possibly
to the United States.
>> That's exactly right.
Yeah, that's
exactly how it goes.
>> Is there stuff here
in the United States?
>> There is.
There are vaults here,
in the United States,
that had been brought over as
early as the 1200s, is when--
the Templars, they would leave
their port in La Rochelle,
in France, and in Portugal.
And they would bring the stuff
over here to the New Land.
They had the entire North
America mapped by the 1350s.
But they had been coming
over here since the 1200s.
>> Why North America?
To keep things
safe, I would think?
>> Yeah, they were trying
to create a new Jerusalem.
They recognized that
Europe was completely
controlled and dominated by--
between the Roman church
and the monarchies.
They were controlling
everything,
and people had no freedoms.
No freedom of thought,
no freedom of religion,
no freedom of assembly,
all the things
that we take for granted
now, as Americans.
They didn't have those things.
So they came to the New World.
They established connections
with the natives here,
and they brought
these artifacts over.
And then they set
up a new system
so that these things
could be preserved.
>> Will this
eventually be revealed?
>> Yes.
>> And the reason why
I ask that is history,
the way that it exists today,
nobody wants to change that.
And the reveal of the Knights
Templar understanding,
occupying, mapping,
and spiriting artifacts
and important relics
into the United States
and stashing them in these
vaults, if this is revealed,
everything has to be rewritten.
>> That's true, yeah.
But it's the history, I
mean, there were things,
and especially, I know you've
talked with Scott Wolter
before.
But his work with the
Kensington Runestone.
That Runestone was a land
claim for North America
that was created.
And it was placed right in
the center of North America
because they had already
mapped the entire continent.
And the connection with
the natives that were here,
there are still
certain tribes that
continue to preserve and
protect these vaults, here
in the United States.
>> You're the Grandmaster
of the Knights Templar.
>> Yes.
>> That's a pretty
important position.
>> Right.
>> The traditions today,
inside of the Knights Templar,
are they the same
traditions from the 1300s?
>> They are.
We don't pay any allegiance
to the Roman church anymore.
We started out independent
of the Roman church.
We had a brief period
of time of patronage
with the Roman church.
And then the Roman church,
along with the King of France,
suppressed the
Templar order in 1307.
And that didn't go too well.
For seven years, there was
a lot of torture and burning
at the stakes.
>> Friday the 13th.
>> Friday the 13th--
that was the origin of that.
At the core of
what we are, we've
always been dedicated to
preserving this tradition.
And we've had to adapt to
the cultures and the habits
of the different
countries that we've lived
and the religious philosophies
of the different countries
that we have done work in.
But ultimately, yeah,
it's the same work.
And ultimately, we're also
committed to this idea
that everybody has a spark
of the divine in them.
Everybody.
And through their
own efforts, they
can attain a direct
knowledge of the divine.
And they don't need
a priest to do it.
>> These vaults that
you referred to earlier,
do you know where they are?
>> Yes.
>> Would you tell me now?
>> I can't tell you right now.
>> The importance of that,
because when somebody hears
that, they go, OK, well,
this would change things.
Why not speak about this now,
and let's take a film crew in
and see what's going on?
>> I think we're
building up to that.
We had to make people aware
of some of the origins of some
of this stuff first.
And one of the
biggest challenges
we're going to face
once we do reveal
it is, you're going to have a
number of different countries
that are going to try to claim
these things for themselves.
And we've got to
get to the point
where we're past all that.
I mean, these relics,
these treasures
are a gift to all humanity.
They belong to all of humanity.
They don't belong to any one
particular power structure.
Even though we're
protecting them,
we didn't even feel
like they belong to us.
We're just kind of preserving
them for the future.
>> So you could tell Josh.
He won't tell me.
And he can keep the secrets.
But here's the thing--
are these relics that would not
only change history but change
the way that the Bible
has been represented to us
and Jesus and God
and Mary and Joseph.
Is this something that
could potentially just
tip things over?
>> Completely.
Yeah, I think it will.
A lot of things will have to
be rewritten or understood
in a new light.
It's not that what the
Bible says is wrong, per se.
It's just that how it's
being interpreted now
is different than
how it actually is.
And so it's going
to force people
to have to look at these things
a little bit differently.
And that's a real threat to
certain church power structures
at the time, currently.
>> Let's back up, if we can.
Did the Knights
Templar, at that time,
understand in
1300, in Jerusalem,
when you're discovering
these things,
you know possibly that
they are important?
You may not know
what they represent,
certainly when it comes to
the alchemical traditions.
But do you think that
they understood enough
that it had to be kept
secret and that later,
another generation
would understand
the importance of this.
>> I think so.
I mean, as evidence
of the fact that when
the order was suppressed,
it was pretty brutal.
And there was a reason
for that, and it
was because the church and
the monarchy at the time,
they both had a vested interest
in keeping things the way
they were.
And all of this threatened that.
And it still does
to a certain degree.
I mean, we're talking
about technologies,
first of all, that are
pre-cataclysm technologies that
have been preserved.
Well, that, you have to have
people accepting that OK, there
may have been a previous
advanced civilization
to begin with.
So that's the first thing.
The second thing
you're talking about
is personal salvation
through your own efforts
that has nothing to do with
a power structure getting you
into heaven.
So that's a change of
thoughts for people.
You know, another
thing, too, that
was right along with
this is Templars
have always sought to preserve
the rights of individuals
to have the freedom to
explore these things.
In fact, one of the
earliest medieval texts
was a book called "Parzival,"
by Wolfram von Eschenbach, which
is one of the first
Grail stories,
and it was written in the 1200s.
In it, it says the
Templars are in charge
of guarding the Grail.
And it also says, when the
Grail appears in the text,
it says, if any
Templar should become
a ruler of a foreign
people, let him
ensure that they are given
their God-given rights.
Well, this is the
first time in history
it's ever suggested
that people have
God-given rights
because prior to this,
people thought your rights
came from the church
or from the King.
And this is saying,
no, your church
comes from a divinity
that transcends all that.
And this is something
we still stand for.
And if you're a power structure
trying to control people,
that's a problem.
>> Can we--
>> Before you move on,
quickly, I just have to--
I need an example of a
pre-cataclysmic technology.
That was a fascinating line.
>> Yeah, so well, these
arks were pre-cataclysmic
technologies.
I mean, ultimately, I
think their purpose is
to broadcast electricity, much
like the works of Nikola Tesla,
when he created his Wardynclyffe
Tower to broadcast electricity
around the planet.
This is what these arks do.
They broadcast
electromagnetic lines of force
around the planet to
these sacred areas.
And that's a problem,
too, if you're
trying to put a meter on having
people pay for electricity.
>> When we talk about the Ark
and what may be inside of it,
it's the dimensions
of the Ark too,
that I'm very curious about.
And I think there is some pretty
successful research into it
may fit exactly into
the box-- some call
it a sarcophagus-- the box
inside of the King's Chamber
inside of the Great Pyramid.
Coincidence?
>> I think that is
absolutely 100% right on.
I mean, the Great Pyramid itself
generates static electricity.
If you were to stand on top of
the Great Pyramid with a glass
bottle with a wet rag
on it and hold it up,
sparks would start
shooting off of the bottle
just from the natural
conductivity of how
the electricity builds
up from the desert.
So if you then stuck an
ark in the center of it,
in that King's Chamber, with
a super conductive substance
in it, it's just going to
broadcast a tremendous amount
of electricity within the area.
And I think that's exactly
what they were doing.
>> With all of this energy, the
depictions of what is created
with the Ark of the Covenant--
you have to wear body armor
to carry it.
You can't look at it directly.
Your life is going
to change if you do.
With the concentration
of this kind
of energy inside of
the Great Pyramid,
it could have done a
multitude of things.
It wasn't just one
specific thing, was it?
>> No, I think it was used
for a lot of different things,
but it was definitely
broadcasting electricity out.
And I think this
electricity was being
harnessed at the different
temples in the region.
In fact, if you look at
most of these temples,
they have stones with what
are known as butterfly clips
around the periphery of them.
And these butterfly
clips, we know,
they used to have metal in them.
And so they were just
basically like receivers
for this electricity.
So you could just kind of plug
your things, whatever you had,
into these things to run it.
And I think this is one of the
secrets of the ancient world
that it probably got established
originally by the Atlanteans.
At least, that's what
history suggests, or myth,
you could say.
And then as things declined,
it just kind of fell apart.
And then people started
stealing the butterfly clips
for the metal or whatever.
>> And staying on this,
because the bronze, the copper,
whatever metal they were using
to bind these stones together
certainly suggested a large
megalithic circuit board,
if you will.
But if you have
multiple arks clearly
represented by the
Egyptians, were
these power sources for these
different temple complexes
and possibly other
pyramids throughout Egypt?
>> I think so.
And if we also consider
that the Great Pyramid
itself is in the exact center
of the land masses of the world,
it was probably
broadcasting this energy
all around the planet, which is
a distinct, real possibility.
So when these
boxes were removed,
it's like it shut off the power
for the entire planet, which
is a real problem if you're
using that for your power
base, your control.
>> All of that is great.
Have you seen the
Ark of the Covenant?
>> Yeah I've seen
one of the arks.
We, currently,
within the Templars,
we have six arks
in our possession.
We are aware of potentially
four other ones.
That's 10 total, but
we're still trying
to get to them at this time.
>> Can you tell us
where you saw that ark?
>> Yeah, I saw it here
in the United States.
>> Really.
>> Did you wear body armor?
>> No, because it
wasn't activated.
>> Were you worried
about that though?
>> Well, so part of what came
with the Ark was these rods.
It's actually referred to
as Aaron's rod in the Bible.
But what these are
is grounding rods.
You can take the rod,
stick it in the ground,
and drop it against
the ark, and it'll
ground all the electricity
into the ground
so you can handle it.
>> We need to
circle back, though.
You mentioned the Holy Grail.
And the way that
"Parzival" represented it,
I think that it was more
of an open book, where
we can interpret what
the Grail actually was.
Did the Grail make it
to the United States?
Did it make it over
to the Americas?
And what is the Grail?
>> It did.
The Grail has been
represented as many things.
I mean, it's been
popular in recent years
to associate it with
some sort of bloodline
from Jesus and Mary Magdalene.
And while that
may be true, there
were other depictions
of the Grail, as well.
I mean, it was described
as a stone that
can burn the Phoenix
to ashes after which it
comes back renewed.
Well, this was an
alchemical metaphor.
>> That's right.
>> It was also described
as an emerald that fell out
of the crown of Lucifer
after this war in heaven,
and it was brought to Earth
by these neutral angels.
Well, this emerald was really--
it was a metaphor
for what was known
as the Emerald Tablet,
which is a tablet
of alchemical instruction.
And even beyond that,
what it really is,
is it's a substance that
looks like an emerald.
It's not even really an emerald.
It's a-- if you want
to get down to it--
it's a copper acetate that is
crystallized copper that ends
up looking like an emerald.
And you can extract from
this these monoatomic manna
atoms that are
extracted alchemically.
>> Well, back to Josh's
question earlier,
where this technology
is older than we think.
And the alchemical
traditions go back,
if we go back to the A
word, right, Atlantis,
we're pushing this back
10,000, 20,000, 30,000 years.
>> Yes.
Yeah, let me give
you an example of how
it has shown up in other
ancient civilizations--
the same technology.
So we refer to it as
"manna," because that's
what we encounter in the
Torah, or the Old Testament.
It's referred to as manna.
But we find the same word
and the same substance
being described in other
ancient civilizations.
For example, in ancient Sumer,
the name of the alchemical
science was known as
Graal, G-R-A-A-L. Graal.
Graal.
Grail.
So that was literally the name
of the alchemical science,
and they used it to create
something known as shimana.
And shimana was used to
help with the flying craft
of the gods, the Anunnaki.
We find the same word
in the Vedic texts
as being called vimana.
So we have manna,
shimana, vimana.
And the vimanas were also
flying crafts of the gods
from pre-cataclysmic times.
In the Polynesian
cultures, we find
it being referred to as manna.
Same thing, though.
It's this force of nature
that they're able to extract.
Within the Gnostic traditions,
like in the Albigensians
of Southern France, of which the
Templars largely came out of,
they used to practice a ceremony
known as the Manisola Ceremony.
And it was like a communion
rite with this substance
that they referred to as mani.
Well, this mani
is the same thing
as the manna, which
as the shimana and the vimana.
And we also find it in a
number of other places.
So it's all these
ancient traditions
were preserving the same
thing, the same science
from ancient times, and it
tied in directly to these arks.
And this is one of the things
that the Knights Templar
got hold of.
>> How, ultimately, Tim,
would this change history?
And if it did and it should,
for those out there that
don't want this history changed,
what kind of fight would--
there's going to be some
oppression from the other side.
How do you move this forward?
>> Again, fundamental to
this belief structure is that
everybody has this source
of the divine within them.
So there's no one group
that are the only chosen
ones at the exclusion
of everybody else.
We're all in this together.
>> Can the world handle it?
>> I think so.
I think we're
getting to the point
with our modern technologies.
With our internet and
our global community,
we now are associating
with each other more,
recognizing our commonalities.
We have to work together now
as a world to solve problems
and to do things that are
for the best for the planet
and for ourselves and
for the other inhabitants
of the planet.
And ultimately, I think we have
a destiny beyond this planet
that we're getting to.
And I think all of
this ancient technology
that we're sitting on and
these ancient philosophies
are all geared towards
helping us go that direction.
>> Does this
conversation today--
do I earn a pin?
>> I will definitely give
you a pin after we're done.
>> Thank you so much.
I look forward to everything
that is about to be revealed.
And these are exciting times,
and I think we're ready for it.
Are you ready for it, Josh?
>> I'm ready.
I'm ready.
>> This is "Into the Vortex."
I'm your host, Jimmy Church.
Timothy Hogan.
Incredible conversation today,
and we'll catch you next time.